So do you know that for many years China has remained Vietnam's largest trading partner and its second largest export market.
And we have the numbers to prove just that. In 2025 alone, bilateral trade turnover reached an impressive $256.4 billion. Promoting cooperation in economics, trade, investment and tourism, a key pillar of bilateral relations, was the central focus of the state visit to China by Party General Secretary and State President To Lam from April 14th to the 17th. Now, a series of signed agreements and documents not only streamline trade flows, but also...
also defined a strategic and sustainable framework for cooperation between the two nations. Following a technical negotiation process dating back to 2019, the protocol on phytosanitary requirements for exporting pomelos and lemons from Vietnam to China was officially signed during Party General Secretary and State President Do Lam's state visit.
This isn't just about adding two more fruits to the export portfolio. It's a vital step in realizing the goal of increasing the export value of Vietnam's fruit and vegetable industry. The protocol entails stringent regulations regarding growing area coats, packing house coats, and phytosanitary standards, which will help standardize production processes and elevate the agricultural sector.
Moving beyond pure trade, the agreements signed during this visit marked a shift towards deep and systemic economic, technological, and infrastructural integration.
Infrastructure connectivity is accelerating, particularly with cross-border railways and smart port models. Chinese enterprises in Vietnam continue to play a pivotal role in infrastructure development and the implementation of large-scale projects. This provides a solid foundation for substantive cooperation between the two countries, moving towards a higher quality, more sustainable and more efficient stage of development.
I expect future collaboration to span a broader range of areas. For instance, this time, the establishment of cross-border economic cooperation zones and collaboration on industrial and supply chains have been proposed, including high-tech, energy and logistics. All of these are very specific, and I believe their impact will be profound.
From the newly cleared agricultural protocol to multi-sectoral investment agreements, all are drawing a new roadmap for the supply chain, transforming cooperation potential into tangible opportunities across every link of the two economies.
Now, to gain a deeper insight into the potential of these new frontiers of cooperation, particularly within the strategic development of roadmaps of both nations, we are joined by Professor Kyu Kiang from Minsuji University of China. Thank you, Professor, and welcome to Newsline. So how do you assess the practicality and scale of the agreements recently signed within the framework of the state visit to China by Party General Secretary and State President Do Lam?
Well, thank you for your question. I think General Secretary Tolan's visit to China is actually a milestone. I think it's very, very important. Certainly, if you read this manifestos after the two leaders have been meeting with each other.
I think all kinds of a long list of the pragmatic corporations actually can be the highlight. It's time for us to upgrade our common connectivities and infrastructure. The road, the railway, the aviation, and also the maritime transportation. All that will actually deliver more of the result for our ordinary families and peoples.
And this corporation portfolio is expanding significantly into high tech in the green economy. So how does that shift create opportunities for businesses on both sides to leverage complementary strengths and modernize the industries of the future?
Many, many things, good momentum, very good dynamics are going to happen between these two nations. And we're talking about the latest development. I think Vietnam have, you know, the best, you know, scientists, mathematicians. What only they need right now is empowerment. For example, development of AI requires the whole set of infrastructures, let's say energy. Well, China actually provoked one.
very important way, which is renewable energy. And in the future, I truly believe with such, you know, enormous sunshine, you know, natural resources, and that can be translated into enormous power to power up the modernization of future Vietnam and your future AI, future robot industries.
And as both nations stand before new development opportunities, how will economic and trade cooperation serve as a pillar to promote a more sustainable and effective Vietnam-China comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership, especially amidst current global fluctuations? China-Vietnam has two very, very complementary partners with each other. You know, industries, wide chain, you know, brain forces, labor forces. So I think...
When Vietnam has been officially entering your new era of the rise of the nation. I think it's also the next five years, right? To 2026, 2030. When Vietnam has been setting up a new goal, about 10% of the growth each year.
China's 15 five-year program actually perfectly can be complementary to Vietnam's national plan. It's not a fight. It's not a competition. Again, as I mentioned, it's a perfect partnership to help each other to grow faster. Thank you for sharing.